# meme2D
## https://meme2d.herokuapp.com
Mashups final project, Fall 2016. Design and created by Cynthia Xin Tong. 

###Features and Dependencies: 
I used multiple Javascript libraries and frameworks to make this website, namely P5.js, box2DWeb and Jquery. On the server side, I created this web app with Node.js and Express, and deployed to Heroku. The main feature of meme2D is the combination of box2D animation and the function to generate user-made memes, accomplished with the [imgflip API](https://api.imgflip.com/). 

###Documentation 
I came up with the idea of creating a box2D world when I was exploring Dan Shiffman's [Nature of Code](http://natureofcode.com/) website. I found the physical interaction between different geometrical shapes inside the browser fascinating. Since I did my previous (mid-term) project with D3, I felt it would be a nice practice to create something with P5 and box2D for this final project. So I spent most of my time in the first week of starting this project on learning box2DWeb, a box2D library meant for web development and Javascript in specific. I explored box2DWeb integrated in both native JS and P5, and found that P5 is a better choice since Shiffman has created several box2D helper functions to be used with P5 code. 

With P5 and box2D, it is possible to make complicated shapes (both convex and concave), but for this project I decided to stick with simpler ones - rectangles, triangles, parallelograms, trapezoids and pentagons. In addition to that, I created a mouse joint function, which enables users to drag, throw and drop the shapes on the screen with their mouse. I also wrote a doubleclick function to let users check the data associated with each shape, and a velocity detection function that initiates the pop-up meme generator area when the linear velocity of the shape becomes to 0. Apart from that, I did not worry too much about the physical interaction part of the project, since the box2D physics engine itself is robust and reliable. 

As for the meme generator, I used the impflip API, which initially gives me 100 different meme images with no texts on them. Then on meme2D, when users type in their own lines of texts and their names, the website sets off an Ajax call to the API and requests an updated version of the original image, now with the user-input texts on it. This way, when users press the submit button, they can expect to see an updated meme image within a couple seconds. Afterwards, users have the option to share their creations to the ["Favorites" Page](https://meme2d.herokuapp.com/favorites) of meme2D. At the same time, the box2D shape associated with this user interaction with the meme image gets a little bigger, due to the user input. An extra line of texts show up underneathe the text area and buttons that tells users how many updates has been made to this specific meme. After users have explored the main site, they can click on the "favorites" button to see all the memes that have been saved to the data base, including their own and other previous users' creations. 

The technical implementation of this website is a little difficult, compared to my previous projects in this course that are single-page sites with no data storage. For meme2D, the coding tasks can be categorized into three main parts. First, the visual aspect, which as I mentioned above involves P5 and box2D. Second, javascript code that deals with the meme API. I wrote several functions in a seperate js file (api.js) to accomplish this. Finally, the server side code which deals with data storage on Cloudant. Completing these different tasks are not the simplest thing in the world, but now I feel I've had a great opportunity to wear multiple shoes and become familiar with several steps involved in web development. Baby steps towards becoming a full-stack developer :). 

At the showcase, I had the chance to share meme2D with both friends and strangers. A common concern most people raise is that they have no idea how to use this website or where to click (unless I show them). Previously, I thought it was pretty obvious what to do when there is only one button in the middle of the screen. But nope, people had no idea. So a later improvement I made to the website was that I added a paragraph of introductory texts. The texts have a pretty good "typing" effect, and they are supposed to give users a general preview of what's going to happen on meme2D.

Overall, doing this project prompted me to learn to organize my code into seperate but connected parts. Also, I learned to use git and heroku, which has already proved helpful in some other projects (Hackathon and CommTech final project). There are several things I want to improve in the future. First, the favorites page can show more information that it does now. I stored the user's name, the image url and some other data, but given the time constraint the page only shows the images right now. Also, the layout of the site could be much better. I didn't have much time to spend on making the website responsive, but it is certainly with doing later on.   
